Ms. Trump:  Mr. President,
Mr. Vice President,
on behalf of my co-chair,
Secretary Ross,
and the entire American
Workforce Policy Advisory Board,
it’s an honor to have here for
today’s inaugural board meeting.
We have spent
the last several hours
in excellent discussion
with the objective
of advancing
a national workforce strategy.
Our collective aim is to ensure
that all Americans
can benefit from the nation’s
historic economic boom
and record low
unemployment rates.
This board of industry,
education, government,
and non-profit leaders
are deeply passionate
about bringing more Americans
off the sidelines
and into the workforce.
We are seeking to increase
the country’s workforce
participation rates
by connecting workers
with good-paying jobs.
We must also focus on helping
those most vulnerable
to having their jobs displaced
due to the rapid pace
of technological change,
and work together to assist them
in learning a new skill
so they can continue
to provide for themselves
and for their families.
Today, we discussed in detail
the four goals
that are the mandate
of this specific council.
First is to develop
a robust campaign
to promote multiple pathways
to good-paying jobs,
dispelling the myth
that there is only one path
to a successful career.
Second, improving
the availability
of high-quality, transparent,
and timely data to better
inform students and educators,
as well as match American
workers to American jobs.
Third, modernizing candidate
recruitment
and training practices to expand
the pool of job applicants
employers
are looking to hire.
And finally, measuring
and encouraging employer-led
training and investments.
We are championing
and seeking to further
private-sector leadership
and investment
in workforce development.
As we look to the future,
this Board will also influence
our legislative agenda
to mobilize our
higher education system
and help us
be more responsive
to today’s students
and job creators.
And this is something
that we’re optimistic
can be done
in this Congress.
I’d like to thank you,
Mr. President, for being here,
and for your
steadfast commitment
to a pro-growth
economic agenda
that is creating tremendous
opportunity for all Americans.
Just this past quarter,
a remarkable 73 percent
of people
who started out work
had been out of the workforce
the previous month,
rather than being unemployed.
That’s the highest share
of people
entering the labor force
from the sidelines
since we started tracking
this metric decades ago.
With record low unemployment
rates across all demographics,
we will continue to focus
on fostering inclusive growth
that lifts up
all of our citizens.
We have
an extraordinary opportunity,
and this extraordinary group
around the table —
titans of industry,
education innovators,
and pillars of our community —
will help us make a difference
in the lives of millions
of our fellow citizens.
We are taking advantage
of this incredible moment
to ensure America retains
its leadership role.
And, now, Mr. President,
I turn the floor over to you.
The President:  She’s so formal.
(laughter)
A special person.
And she’s worked so hard,
as you all know.
And I want to thank you,
Ivanka,
for your devotion to the America
workers — our great workers.
And nobody has workers
like we do.
So I just want to thank you,
honey, because — great job.
Really great job.
(applause)
She works very hard on this,
I will say.
And she’s created a lot
of happy families.
Because you’re going to be up
to close to 7 million people
pretty soon that you are
very responsible,
along with many of the people
at this table.
And I’m going to ask,
I think, for you —
maybe before I even speak —
to go around the table,
because this is such
a distinguished group,
and just introduce yourself.
We have a few of the media back
there, and just a small group.
You know, Tim,
sometimes you have to see
some of these groups.
It’s pretty amazing
what they do.
They break down the walls
and the windows
and everything else
in order to get in.
But we have great
representative media back.
And I thought you should really
take some of the credit
for what you’ve done.
And I’d maybe like
to start with Tim Cook
who has done such
an incredible job at Apple.
He’s become a friend of mine.
And he’s a friend
because he does a great job.
I mean, we want
to get things done.
Employs so many people.
Brought a lot of money
back into our country
because of the new tax law,
and he’s spending
that money very wisely.
And just done an incredible job.
So, Tim,
maybe you could just start.
Please.
Mr. Cook:  Sure.
Thank you, Mr. President.
It’s an honor to serve
on this council.
I’ve always thought that America
is so special in so many ways,
but at the heart
of all of it is people.
And that, to me,
is what this group is about.
For — our company, as you know,
was founded
by a college drop-out.
The President:  Right.
Mr. Cook:  So we’ve never really
thought that a college degree
was the thing
that you had to have to do well.
We’ve always tried
to expand our horizons.
And so that degree — about half
of our U.S. employment last year
were people that did not have
a four-year degree.
And we’re very proud of that,
but we want to go further.
And so to that end, as we’ve
looked at the — sort of,
the mismatch between the skills
that are coming out of colleges
and what the skills are that
we believe
we need in the future,
and many other businesses do,
we’ve identified coding
as a very key one.
And we believe strongly
that it should be a requirement
in the United States
for every kid to have coding
before they graduate from K-12,
and become
somewhat proficient at it.
And so we’ve provided a —
we’ve done a curriculum now
and provided it to all schools
in the United States.
Four thousand have picked it up.
Now, we have a lot further to go
because there’s a lot more
than 4,000 schools in America,
but that is a start.
We’ve also done that
with 80 community colleges.
And we’re really proud of that,
particularly with the work
that we’re doing in Austin,
and providing
coding education there.
There’s an enormous deficit
in the number of jobs
versus the number of candidates.
And so we’re —
we are proud to take part
and to help to get
this alignment much better
between education
and private sector.
We realize that in something
this large,
it takes government,
private sector,
and education all kind of oaring
in the same direction,
and we’re very proud
to be a part of it.
The President:  Well, thank you,
Tim. Great job you’re doing.
Mr. Cook:  Thank you. Thank you.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
Kim?
Governor Reynolds:  Well, I too
want to echo my appreciation
for having the opportunity
to serve on this Board.
I’m excited about what’s
happening across this country.
Iowa has the lowest unemployment
rate the nation at 2.4 percent.
Our economy is growing.
We’ve had four straight quarters
of wage growth in Iowa.
We are no different
than other states.
We have jobs looking for people.
So I’m anxious to work.
And public-private partnership
is the answer.
That is how it’s going to work.
We have an initiative, Future
Ready Iowa, that has a goal
of having 70 percent of Iowans
in the workforce
to have education
or training beyond high school
by the year 2025.
And we’re at about
58 percent right now,
but set the goals high, right? —
The President:  Right.
Governor Reynolds:  —
and work hard to get it.
And we’re doing that
through registered
apprenticeship programs.
And we just — we’ll be launching
an initiative,
Computer Science is Elementary,
that will launch six
computer-science elementaries
in the state that will target
high-poverty, high-needs areas
so we can help produce
a capable, ready workforce.
Most importantly, though —
and then I’ll pass it
— is to make sure
that our students and that
Iowans know that there are
multiple paths to great careers
and those careers exist in Iowa.
Thank you.
The President:  Well, thank you.
And, Kim,
just had a great victory —
Governor of Iowa.
She just defeated somebody
who spent unlimited money.
It was unlimited.
And it’s called “talent.”
You’ve done a great job.
Thank you very much, Kim.
Great job.
Mayor Lyles:  Mr. President,
thank you for the opportunity
to be here today.
I’m Vi Lyles,
from the city of Charlotte.
And what I’d like to say
is that we’re a city
where we want everyone
to have the ability
to participate
in the economic opportunity.
And we are the second largest
banking center
now in the country.
That may be good or bad.
But nonetheless,
when we look at that,
we also have to weigh it against
those that haven’t had a chance.
And this opportunity, I think,
will provide us pathways,
innovations, collaborations
to accomplish that,
so that people left out can get
in a great home, a place —
safe place to live, and a job
that they can be proud of.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
And we have our big convention
in your city, as you know.
Mayor Lyles:  That’s true.
We’re getting ready for it.
The President:  And you
worked very hard.
And a lot of people wanted it
and you got it.
So congratulations,
and I’ll see you soon.
Thank you.
Mr. McGarvey:  Mr. President,
Sean McGarvey
with North America’s Building
and Trades Unions.
And I too want to thank you
for the opportunity to work
with terrific co-chairs
and colleagues
around this table on issues
that are really important
to the building trades.
And I want to let you know
that we made a commitment
to you last year
of 250,000 new apprentices
over the next five years,
and 56,000 of those last year
were registered with
the Department of Labor.
So we’re following through
on our commitment. Thank you.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
Mr. Box:  Mr. President, Jay Box
from the great state —
the great commonwealth
of Kentucky,
representing 4.3 million people,
and more particularly,
representing the 16
comprehensive community colleges
and our 73 campuses
around the state.
And in Kentucky, we are
committed to speeding the time
to a degree
and a credential
because we know
the workforce needs us
to turn out
our workers faster.
And so, we like to say: Instead
of a career pathway,
a career freeway,
with many onramps and exit ramps
so that students can come
into our institutions
at any time and exit
once they get a credential
and right into the workforce.
And later on they can come
right back in
for further skill training.
The President:  Great job.
Thank you very much.
Mr. Box:  Thank you.
Mr. Donohue:  Mr. President,
nice to see you.
I’m very pleased to be here.
This project addresses itself
to the two
fundamental challenges
we face in the business
community and in our society.
That is people without jobs
and massive numbers of jobs
without people.
And I believe the work that will
take place here immediately,
just with people working
with one another,
will add to the solution
of both of those challenges.
Thank you very much.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
Mr. Sanders:  Thank you
Mr. President.
Scott Sanders,
National Association
of State Workforce Agencies.
It’s been great to be around
this table with employers,
educators, and others.
We’ve already started
talking with Tom
about how we can help
across all the states —
help pull those together
that are unemployed,
under-skilled, and they’re
out of the workforce —
and how do we get them back in
and help fill
those 7.3 million jobs.
So, honored to be here.
Thank you.
The President:  Thank you
very much. Thank you.
Ms. Utash:  Mr. President,
Sheree Utash,
President of Wichita
State University Applied
Sciences and Technology
in Wichita, Kansas,
“The Air Capital
of the World.”
The President:  Right.
Ms. Utash:  And very happy
to be here.
Very honored to be
serving on this.
And wonderful that we have
this issue to deal with
and to find solutions for.
So thank you for all
your efforts towards that.
You know, we say,
at our college,
“Hope has a face,”
and it’s face of our students.
And we know from education —
from higher education —
that we have to be innovative
and disruptive
in order to be in line
and aligned with business
and industry.
And so we’re doing a lot of that
and hope to continue to do that.
And I can assure you,
from the two-year sector,
along with Dr. Bumphus,
we’re doing everything we can
to create the workforce
for the future.
The President:  Thank you
very much. Thank you.
Ms. Wanamaker:  Mr. President,
I’m Marianne Wanamaker.
I’m a labor economist
at the University of Tennessee.
I think, really,
the administration
should be applauded
for putting a spotlight on our —
using federal data to solve
some of our biggest challenges.
And this is one of those places
where we really have
a lot of assets at our disposal.
I’m excited to help the board
think through those issues.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
Dr. Bumphus:  Good afternoon,
Mr. President.
Good to see you again.
It was about a year ago,
I think, when we were here
with the Expanding
Apprenticeships Task Force.
And I join my colleague here
in saying the administration
should be applauded
and commended
for the focus and spotlight
you put on this very,
very important issue.
And I would be remiss,
as I think all of my colleagues
would agree,
if we didn’t also commend
Ivanka and Secretary Ross
for the leadership
they provided too.
I think there’s going to be
some outstanding work
we’re going to do together.
So again, thank you
for your leadership, sir.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
Governor?
Governor Holcomb:  Mr.
President,
let me pile on the praise
for your administration’s —
and the entire administration,
for that matter —
just a laser focus
on this topic.
It is going to — whether
we like it around this table
or not, it’s going
to define our nation.
It’s going to define our states,
our organizations,
our companies, and the legacy
that we leave behind us
when we get this right.
And you are.
So I just want to express
another debt of gratitude
for trusting us.
Last year, your administration,
the Department of Labor,
granted us a waiver
that enabled us to cut
our workforce council
in the state of Indiana
about in half.
And it allowed us to operate
at the speed of this table
and the businesses
that are around it.
And that has made
all the difference in the world.
So as you continue to trust us,
the states,
to own it and to prove it,
we will show America
what works and what doesn’t.
And that will take us
to the next level.
Thank you, sir.
The President:  That’s great.
Thank you, Eric. Great.
Ms. Hewson:  Mr. President,
Marillyn Hewson,
Lockheed Martin.
I just, again, wanted
to tell you how honored I am
to serve on this advisory board
but also to commend you
and your administration
for your focus
on getting American workers
prepared for the future
and advanced economy
that we’re in.
It’s not just about
today’s mismatch
and things we might
work on today,
but it’s getting us prepared
for continued economic growth.
What you’ve done to enable us
with tax reform,
with regulatory reform
has helped us
to reinvest in our businesses,
to reinvest in our workforce.
And we thank you for that
and commend you for that.
Thank you.
The President:  Thank you,
Marillyn. How is the F-35 doing?
Ms. Hewson:  It’s
doing great, sir.
(laughter)
The President:  Because I spoke
to some of your competitor
countries,
and they say, “We have a problem
with it. You can’t see it.”
I say, “How do you do with your
plane compared to this one?”
They say, “Well, this one
you can’t see.”
So I would say they have
a pretty big —
our pilots have a pretty
big advantage with the F-35.
So that’s great.
Great job you’ve done.
Ms. Hewson:  Thank you.
The President:  And it’s
a great plane.
Everybody loves it.
Wilbur?
Secretary Ross:  Thank you,
Mr. President,
for making
the American workforce
one of your top priorities
as President.
Thank you also for putting in
place the economic policies
that are dedicated
to the preposition
that American workers form
the backbone of our economy.
Thank you, too, to the members
of the new
Workforce Advisory Board
for such an insightful
and high-energy discussion.
Now the real work begins.
In the next 12 months,
between now and, actually,
July of 2020,
this Advisory Board
will develop recommendations
under the four major points
that we discussed
this afternoon.
And those recommendations
will go the National Council
for the American Worker,
which Ivanka and I co-chair
with Secretary Acosta
and Domestic Policy Council
Director, Joe Grogan.
So we’re looking forward
to the implementation phase,
which, as you know, execution
is the key to everything.
The President:  Thank you,
Wilbur.
Mike? Mike Pence.
The Vice President:  Mr.
President,
I would just — I want to commend
Ivanka and the Secretary
for implementing
your vision
of workforce innovation
in this country.
And I want to thank
Governor Reynolds,
Governor Holcomb,
and Tim and Marillyn,
and Ginni and Al.
It’s an extraordinary group
of industry leaders —
The President:  It’s true.
The Vice President:  — that you
brought together.
And I just want
to assure you —
one of the very first
conversations the President
and I had when he was
considering me for this positon,
back in the campaign of 2016,
was about workforce;
about his passion
for what we call
“vocational
and technical education.”
And I just want to assure you,
as you’ll hear firsthand again
from the President today,
that this is an enormously
high priority
for this administration.
We’re very grateful to each
and every one of you
for engaging
and bringing best practices
and best ideas forward.
The President:  Thanks, Mike.
Mr. Kelly:  Mr. President
and Mr. Vice President,
Ivanka started the meeting today
— actually, twice — (laughter)
— talking about
the strength of the economy.
And I think that I applaud
any organization —
in this particular case,
the U.S. government
and your administration —
for actually planning
for the future
when things
are actually strong.
And I think that’s a really,
really smart thing
and very,
very good leadership.
And so we’re excited
about doing everything
we can to be part of it.
So thank you.
The President:  Thank you
very much, Al.
Great job you’re doing.
Thank you.
Ms. Humpton:  Mr. President,
Barbara Humpton,
CEO of Siemens USA.
And it’s such an honor
to be included
with this brilliant group.
Siemens comes to the table
just with open to sharing
and open to learning
from our colleagues.
And I’ve got a special focus
on this fourth objective:
the idea that what
gets measured gets done,
and the idea that we can use our
measurements and track progress
to encourage others to get
engaged in these initiatives.
Thank you.
The President:  Well, thank you.
And really a great job.
In fact, specifically,
Ivanka wanted me
to point you out and say,
“Dad” — I’ll tell you, she said,
“Dad, she’s done a great job.”
I appreciate it.
Thank you, Barbara. Great job.
Ms. Humpton:  Thank you so much.
And thank you, Ivanka.
Ms. Trump:  Thank you.
Mr. Clark:  Good.
Jim Clark, the President of Boys
& Girls Clubs of America.
And thank you for hosting
our Youth of the Year —
five of them —
this morning at your office,
with the Vice President.
They enjoyed the opportunity
to interact with you.
Thank you for including
Boys & Girls Clubs
in this important endeavor.
Out-of-school time matters.
Kids spend more time
out of school than in school.
And our focus is
on that pathway to success
and a great future
instilling essential skills
as well as critical
job-readiness skills,
like STEM education
and other important factors.
So thank you for including
Boys & Girls Club.
The President:  Thanks, Jim.
Mr. Piwowar:  Mr. President,
Mike Piwowar
from the Milken Institute.
And I know you know the work
of the institute very well.
But for others,
we are a non-partisan,
non-profit think tank dedicated
to building meaningful lives.
I’m the Executive Director
of the Center
for Financial Markets,
and our mission is to use
the power of financial markets
to improve access to capital,
job creation,
and improved health.
I’m so excited to be part
of this effort to —
what I think of is building
a virtuous cycle
of investing
in the American Dream
by investing in each other.
So thank you.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
Ms. Goettl:  Mr. President,
Elizabeth Goettl,
Cristo Rey Network.
Thirty-five private schools
exclusively
serving low-income students
through a special agreement
with the United States
Department of Labor.
Every single student works day
a week in an entry-level
professional job:
law firms, engineering firms,
the technology industry,
and the like.
And in so doing, developing
these transferable soft skills
that will take them
into any job in the workforce:
persistence, communication,
and a strong work ethic.
Thanks for the opportunity
to be here.
The President:  Thank you
very much. Thank you.
Mr. Timmons:  Mr. President,
Jay Timmons
with the National Association
of Manufacturers.
I had the great fortune
yesterday
of being able to announce
the results of our first quarter
2019 Survey of Manufacturers
with the Vice President
present at our Board
of Directors meeting.
And as you know, that survey
has been going on for 20 years.
I was able to announce
that we have had
nine consecutive quarters
of record optimism —
The President:  Great.
Mr. Timmons:  —
for manufacturers. 91.8 percent.
And that’s no accident.
That is because of the tools
we’ve been given to invest,
to hire, to raise wages
on benefits through tax reform,
through regulatory certainty.
And that’s created a bit
of a challenge for us
because now we have 428,000 jobs
open in manufacturing.
Our Manufacturing
Institute predicts
that that number will increase
to 2.4 million
in the next 10 years.
So this Board, this Advisory
Board, it’s perfect timing.
Thank you for taking this on.
Thank you to Ivanka
for your passion on this issue.
It really is going to matter
for America’s future.
It’s going to matter for our
success in the global economy.
The President:  Thank you, Jay.
And if you remember
from past years,
others said that manufacturing
was not going to happen;
those jobs were
never coming back.
And they are coming back.
We have 600,000 —
Mr. Timmons:  Well,
they’re coming roaring back.
The President:  Right, they’re
roaring back.
We have 600,000,
and it’ll be a lot higher
than that when the next report
comes out.
And it’s really been something,
the manufacturing jobs.
We’re going to be up to —
getting close to record numbers.
Nobody thought
they were coming back.
And I said, “How does
that not happen?” Right?
If manufacturing jobs come back,
does the country come back?
And we’re doing really well.
And I think you’re also,
in your numbers,
it was the biggest increase
in the history of your chart.
And that’s something
that made me very happy.
Your initial jump.
Not you last jump,
but your initial jump.
Mr. Timmons:  Yeah, it went
from 56 percent,
I believe, to 93 percent.
The President:  Yeah.
Mr. Timmons:  It was
a huge jump.
The President:  That’s right.
That’s what I had heard.
I had to bring that up
because, to me,
that was —
that was the initial one.
The last one was a nice jump,
but, you know, we were
competing against ourselves.
But the initial, yeah,
it went from like 56 to 93.
Mr. Timmons:  That’s right.
The President:  So that was
a pretty big jump.
That shows optimism, which is
a big part of what we’re doing.
Thank you very much, Jay.
Great job.
Mr. Timmons:  Thank you
for your leadership.
The President:  Thank you.
Keep it up.
Mr. Liddell:  Mr. President,
thank you
for your focus on this area.
I have the benefit of spending
a lot of time with you,
and I know your passion
for the area.
So thank you for the leadership.
We have an extraordinary group
around the table,
and we’re coming up
with some really practical
and implemental action.
So, thank you.
The President:  Thanks, Chris.
Thanks. Great job.
Mr. Pulsipher:  Mr. President,
Mr. Vice President,
Scott Pulsipher.
I’m the President of Western
Governors University.
Ivanka, Secretary Ross,
thank you for the honor
and the opportunity to be here.
WGU was founded very simply
on the premise and the purpose
to change the lives
of individuals and families.
And we believe education
is the single biggest
catalyst to do so.
We believe it’s the surest path
to opportunity
in the form of a great job
and a prominent life.
We surely have a mission
to expand access
to high-quality education
with great outcomes.
We need more accessible,
more affordable,
more aligned pathways
in education
that lead to the workforce
of the future.
And so it’s a great opportunity
to be here
and work together
with these colleagues.
The President:
Thank you, Scott.
Mr. Pulsipher:  Thank you.
The President:  Very nice.
Thank you.
Ms. Duggan:  Mr. President,
Juanita Duggan, NFIB,
the National Federation
of Independent Business.
And we’ve been representing
hundreds of thousands
of small businesses
across America for 75 years.
And thanks to you
and the last Congress,
you gave us the largest tax
cut in history
for America’s small business,
and the small-business economy
has been on fire.
You also broke records
for optimism
in small business
over the last two years.
And for years,
taxes and regulations
were the biggest problems
facing small business.
The Vice President
knows this as well.
And now those
are not the problems,
but finding qualified labor
is the biggest problem
for small business.
Record numbers of
small-business owners declared
that they can’t find any
applicants for their open jobs.
So this is becoming a crisis.
And as good as the economy
is for small business,
it’s not sustainable if we can’t
fix this serious labor shortage.
The President:  Right. I agree.
Ms. Duggan:  So thank you
very much.
It’s an honor to serve
on this committee.
And thank you also for the whole
administration’s focus
on small business
over the last two years.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
Ms. Duggan:  It’s been
extraordinary.
Thank you, Mr. President.
The President:  And I agree
with what you just said.
Thank you very much, Juanita.
Mr. Menear:  Mr. President,
Mr. Vice President,
Craig Menear
from the Home Depot.
It is a privilege to serve
the American workers here
with the esteemed colleagues
around this table.
So I thank you
for the opportunity.
We’re passionate at Home Depot
about helping our associates
grow their careers.
And to run a retailer
the scale of Home Depot,
you need everything from
engineering, to data science,
to folks who have
outstanding people skills
and a passion
for customer service.
And we’re privileged to serve
on this committee
to help drive this forward and
continue to grow this economy.
Thank you.
The President:  Thank you
very much.
Great job you’re doing.
Ms. Rometty:  Mr. President
and Mr. Vice President,
I, like everyone, am very
honored to be on this committee.
And I have to add just two other
comments to those already made.
So to both Secretary Ross
and Ivanka,
I would add the word
“unwavering” leadership.
Because for as long
as you’ve been in office,
I can remember
this has been a top issue.
And it has been unwavering,
through thick and thin,
their support on this,
and yours.
And I also am very optimistic
about this in that
I think we have a chance
to not only say
this is a very strong economy;
it will be an inclusive economy.
Because I think as a result
of all this work,
we have a chance to employ
so many more people,
and not always
with a college degree.
Less than a four-year degree
will get a very good-paying job
in the new economy.
And so, to me,
that would be just a really
wonderful contribution —
both a strong
and an inclusive economy.
So thank you
for the opportunity.
The President:  Thank you
very much, Ginni.
Mr. Taylor:  Mr. President,
Johnny Taylor from the Society
for Human Resource
Management, SHRM.
Three-hundred thousand members
across the globe.
And I got to tell you,
we share something,
a common passion,
and that’s for workforce.
When I hear the Vice President
say that —
I know Ivanka is living it —
it means a lot
to our profession.
You’ve created a different
problem for us, though.
We often — now businesses
are telling us
they don’t have a problem
accessing financial capital;
they have a problem
accessing human capital.
That’s a high-class problem.
The human resources profession
is committed to resolving it.
But thank you
for that opportunity.
The President:  Well, thank you
very much, Johnny.
And we’re going to be
opening up the labor forces,
because we have to.
We have so many
companies coming.
People like Tim,
you’re expanding all over
and doing things
that I really wanted you
to right from the beginning.
I used to say, “Tim, you got
to start doing it over here.”
And you really have.
I mean, you’ve really put
a big investment in our country.
We appreciate it very much,
Tim — Apple.
But we’re opening it up.
We have to bring people in.
We want them to be people
based on merit,
and we want them
to come in legally.
You see what’s going on
at the border.
And we’re doing a great job,
whether it’s Border Patrol,
ICE, law enforcement, generally.
We’re all working together.
We have our military sent
to the border.
We have 8,000 military personnel
right now at the border.
We are doing an amazing job
considering it’s really
an onslaught very much.
I call it “invasion.”
They always get upset
when I say “an invasion.”
But it really is somewhat
of an invasion.
And we’re stopping drugs
at a record level,
but a record number of drugs
are pouring up and coming up.
And we’re getting it done.
Human trafficking is a disaster.
Nobody knew too much
about it until recently.
It’s been going on
for a million years, actually.
for a long time.
But we’ve seen it.
We’ve spotted it.
It’s being slowed down,
but we can’t slow it down
unless we have a very strong
and powerful separation
between us
and whoever it is it may be.
And in this case,
it happens to be Mexico.
And Mexico has helped us,
but Mexico has a record number
of murders this year —
a number that’s so large,
it’s actually hard to believe.
And we’re working very hard
on doing —
actually having one of
the safest we’ve ever been.
We have some of the best numbers
we’ve ever had,
from the standpoint of crime,
murders, killings included.
One of our best years
ever was last year.
And we’re down 6 percent
from last year,
so that’s very important.
But we want to have
a very strong border,
but we’re going to have
a lot of people coming in.
A lot of people
don’t understand that.
They think we’re
shutting it out.
We’re not shutting it out.
We want people to come in,
but they have to come in
through a process.
So we have a process that’s
really moving along rapidly.
Last year,
we took in a large number
of highly qualified,
wonderful people.
And they’re — for the most part,
they’re working already
in your companies.
But we also have a lot
of companies coming in.
I was with Prime Minister Abe
the other day, and he said —
we spoke the other day.
And he said that Japan is going
to be sending about seven —
at least seven more
big factories into this country.
And it’s got to do more
than that;
we have too big
a deficit with Japan.
We have for a long time.
But they’re going to —
you saw a couple of openings —
big openings in Michigan.
Chrysler Fiat just announced
that they’re going to spend
$4.5 billion in Michigan
around the Detroit area.
We have a tremendous number
of not only
car companies coming in;
we have a lot of car companies
coming in.
They’re coming in,
they’re building new,
but they’re also expanding.
And they’re going
to Pennsylvania.
They’re going to Ohio.
Very heavy in Michigan.
South Carolina,
North Carolina — all over.
We have — we have companies
coming into this country
at a record pace,
and really at a pace
that nobody thought possible
because nobody thought
you’d ever see these
particular companies again.
Many of them are coming back.
They want to be
where the action is.
They’re coming back.
They left years ago —
I used to talk about it
as a civilian.
But they left years ago,
and now they’re coming back,
and they’re coming back
in numbers that nobody believes.
So we’re going to let a lot
of people come in
because we need workers.
We have to have workers.
Unemployment at 3.7, 3.6,
probably. These are low numbers.
And, in one way, I love it.
But, in another way,
I don’t want to make it hard
for you
to get those companies rolling
with really great people.
Because without the
great people, it doesn’t work.
All of these wonderful things
we talk about are nice,
but you need the great —
as you discussed, Juanita,
you need the people
and you need really good people.
And we have great people.
And we have the best
in the world, in my opinion.
And we are having other people
come into our country
that you’re going to be very
proud of and the job they do.
One of the things
that has happened —
and people don’t talk about it —
but because of the great
economy,
we have
a prison population that,
for the first time ever,
is getting a shot at working.
When they got out of prison,
they had a stigma,
and it was a tough stigma.
And, in many cases,
there was not much
they could do;
they couldn’t get a job.
They couldn’t — no matter what,
And now they’re getting jobs
because our economy is so strong
because you want workers.
And I’ve spoken to at least
six big employers,
and they are loving
what they see.
They cannot even believe how
good some of these people are.
Not in all cases, I guess,
but you can say
that about everybody —
but how great they have been.
And it’s very nice to hear.
First time ever. The first time
that’s ever happened.
And to a large extent,
it’s because we take some credit
because of the economy.
But it’s an incredible thing
what’s happening
with respect
to the prison population.
They’re getting out,
they’re getting jobs,
and they’re doing
a fantastic job.
And it’s really beautiful
to see.
I just want to —
and many of you are friends —
I just want to thank you all
for what you’ve done.
I also want to thank
Doug McMillon,
the CEO of WalMart.
They have been fantastic,
Ivanka, I know that —
because they’ve just hired
tremendous amounts of people.
And William McDermott of SAP.
They have really stood out.
And they —
they’re very special people.
And I just want to thank them,
in addition to the folks
around the table.
And again, thank you all for
being here.
Thanks for the incredible job
you’ve done.
We appreciate it very much.
And, Tim, thank you very much.
Mr. Cook:  Thank you,
Mr. President.
The President:  And thank you
very much, everybody.
Thank you. Thank you.
Press, thank you. Appreciate it.
The Press:  Mr. President,
how much more immigration
would you like to see in this
(inaudible)?
The President:  Well,
we’re going to have
a lot of people
coming into the country.
We want a lot of people
coming in.
And we need it.
It’s not a question
of do we want it.
These folks are going
to have to,
sort of, not expand too much.
And if you tell them —
these are very ambitious people
around this table.
They don’t like the concept
of not expanding.
Would you say
that’s right, Barbara?
Barbara is not into
non-expansion.
So we want to have
the companies grow.
And the only way
they’re going to grow
is if we give them the workers.
And the only way we’re going
to have the workers is to do
exactly what we’re doing.
Thank you all very much.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Please.
The Press:  Can you comment on
the T-Mobile-Sprint merger, sir?
The President:  Thank you very
much.